>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SATURDAY JUNE 6:
ARE CHINESE HACKERS ACCESSING
U.S. DATABASES IN AN EFFORT TO
RECRUIT SPIES?
AFTER ANOTHER WEEK OF VIOLENCE,
NEW PROMISES TO FIGHT BOKO HARAM
IN NIGERIA.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
ARE SOME DRUG COMPANIES PAYING
TO DELAY LESS EXPENSIVE GENERICS
FROM HITTING THE MARKET?
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I'M ALISON STEWART IN FOR HARI
SREENIVASAN.
WE'RE LEARNING MORE TONIGHT
ABOUT ONE OF THE LARGEST-KNOWN
CYBER ATTACKS EVER TO STRIKE THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT.
OFFICIALS SUSPECT CHINESE
HACKERS COMPROMISED THE RECORDS
OF SOME FOUR MILLION CURRENT AND
FORMER FEDERAL EMPLOYEES,
STEALING DATA FROM THE OFFICE OF
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT'S COMPUTER
NETWORK.
ACCORDING TO THE "WASHINGTON
POST," EXPERTS SUSPECT THE
HACKERS ARE COLLECTING MASSIVE
AMOUNTS OF PERSONAL INFORMATION.
THEIR GOAL: TO FIND AND
POTENTIALLY RECRUIT SPIES INSIDE
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.
THE POST QUOTES GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS WHO CALL THE THEFT
PART OF A STRATEGIC PLAN.
THIS IS THE THIRD MAJOR CYBER
ATTACK ON A FEDERAL DATABASE IN
THE PAST YEAR.
THE WHITE HOUSE IS CALLING ON
CONGRESS TO, "COME OUT OF THE
DARK AGES" AND PASS CYBER
SECURITY LEGISLATION.
BUT CRITICS SAY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HASN'T DONE
ENOUGH TO SECURE FEDERAL
DATABASES.
IN WILMINGTON DELAWARE TODAY, AN
OVERFLOW CROWD OF AT LEAST A
THOUSAND PEOPLE GATHERED FOR THE
FUNERAL MASS FOR THE VICE
PRESIDENT'S SON, BEAU BIDEN.
THE FORMER MARYLAND ATTORNEY
GENERAL DIED A WEEK AGO OF BRAIN
CANCER AT THE AGE OF 46.
INSIDE, PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA
DELIVERED A EULOGY, DESCRIBING
BEAU BIDEN AS HIS FATHER'S SON
CALLING HIM , "JOE-TWO-POINT-
OH:"
>> SOMEONE WHO CARED, SOMEONE
WHO CHARMED YOU, AND DISARMED
YOU, AND PUT YOU AT EASE.
A 10-YEAR INTERNAL STUDY OF THE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
SHOWS THAT THE GOVERNMENT
OVERPAID SOCIAL SECURITY
BENEFICIARIES BY NEARLY
17 BILLION DOLLARS.
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE
TRACKED THE PAYMENTS FROM 2003
TO 2014.
MANY OF THE OVERPAYMENTS WENT TO
PEOPLE WHO EARNED TOO MUCH TO
QUALIFY, WERE NO LONGER
DISABLED, HAD DIED OR GONE TO
PRISON.
THE AGENCY'S DEBT COLLECTION
PROGRAM RECOUPED OVER EIGHT
BILLION DOLLARS.
BUT INVESTIGATORS SAY IT TOOK
YEARS TO GET THAT MONEY BACK.
A FEDERAL JURY HAS ACQUITTED A
FORMER B.P. EXECUTIVE ACCUSED OF
MAKING FALSE STATEMENTS TO
FEDERAL INVESTIGATORS AFTER THE"
DEEPWATER HORIZON" OIL RIG
EXPLOSION.
DAVID RAINEY WAS FACING FIVE
YEARS IN PRISON FOR ALLEGEDLY
MISLEADING INVESTIGATORS.
HE ESTIMATED NEARLY 5,100
BARRELS OF OIL PER-DAY WERE
LEAKING INTO THE GULF.
SCIENTISTS LATER FOUND IT WAS
MORE THAN 60,000 BARRELS PER
DAY.
THE DEFENSE ARGUED RAINEY HAD NO
REASON TO LIE.
THE 2010 EXPLOSION KILLED 11
PEOPLE AND TRIGGERED THE LARGEST
OFFSHORE OIL SPILL IN U.S.
HISTORY.
IN IRAQ, PRO-GOVERNMENT TROOPS
FOUGHT OFF TWO ISIS ATTACKS IN
ANBAR PROVINCE.
ISIS TRIED TO TAKE HUSSEIBA
TODAY, USING HEAVY MORTAR FIRE,
BUT IRAQI FORCES HUNG ON.
THE U.S. LED COALITION CONTINUES
TO CONDUCT AIRSTRIKES.
A U.S. GENERAL CALLED THE
BOMBING CAMPAIGN AGGRESSIVE AND
SAYS IT HAS KILLED 1,000 ISLAMIC
STATE FIGHTERS PER MONTH.
STILL, IRAQI FORCES HAVE NOT
BEEN ABLE TO RETAKE THE KEY CITY
OF RAMADI.
IN CHINA, THE DEATH TOLL FROM
THE OVERTURNED CRUISE LINER THAT
CAPSIZED MONDAY NIGHT HAS JUMPED
TO 396 PEOPLE.
THE "EASTERN STAR" FLIPPED OVER
ON THE YANGTZE RIVER DURING A
FREAK STORM MONDAY NIGHT.
CREWS RIGHTED THE SHIP AND
RESCUERS ARE STILL HOLDING OUT
HOPE, SEARCHING FOR SURVIVORS.
THEY'VE ONLY FOUND 14 SO FAR.
MOST OF THE PASSENGERS WERE
ELDERLY TOURISTS.
>> Stewart: IT HAS BEEN JUST
OVER A WEEK SINCE THE NEW
PRESIDENT OF NIGERIA, MUHAMMADU
BUHARI WAS INAUGURATED.
AND SO FAR, THE WEEK HAS BEEN
MARRED BY A SERIES OF ATTACKS,
ALL BLAMED ON THE ISLAMIC
MILITANT GROUP BOKO HARAM.
MOST RECENTLY, AS MANY AS 45
PEOPLE HAVE DIED IN A SUICIDE
BOMBING IN NORTHEASTERN NIGERIA.
IN HIS INAUGURAL ADDRESS, BUHARI
CALLED BOKO HARAM "MINDLESS" AND
"GODLESS" AND VOWED TO ERADICATE
THE GROUP AND RESCUE HUNDREDS OF
WOMEN AND CHILDREN IT'S TAKEN
HOSTAGE.
SO HOW WILL HE MAKE GOOD ON THAT
PLEDGE?
FOR MORE INSIGHT, WE'RE JOINED
NOW VIA SKYPE FROM ACCRA, GHANA
BY DREW HINSHAW OF THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL.
AND, DREW, IN THE SHORT TERM HOW
IS THE NEW PRESIDENT GOING TO
MAKE GOOD ON THAT PROMISE?
>> WELL, THE FIRST THING HE'S
DONE IS EXPRESS A CERTAIN
SERIOUSNESS ABOUT THE ISSUE THAT
MIJEERNS, I THINK, ARE
CELEBRATING.
HE'S TALKED ABOUT MOVING HIS
GENERAL TO THE NORTHEAST THAT
THEY CAN BE IN CLOSER CONTACT
WITH THE SOLDIERS WHO HAVE TO
FIGHT THIS WAR.
I THINK WHAT YOU'RE SEEING,
THOUGH, IS THAT BOKO HARAM IS A
GROUP OF MAYBE SEVERAL THOUSANDS
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE FIGHTING A
DIFFERENT KIND OF WAR.
I MEAN, THEY'RE HAPPY TO KILL
CIVILIANS AT THEIR LEISURE, AND
IT'S GOING TO BE INCREDIBLY HARD
FOR ANY PRESIDENT TO PROTECT
EVERY VILLAGE, SCHOOL, AND
MARKET IN A COUNTRY OF 177
MILLION PEOPLE, AND I THINK MANY
NIGERIANS ARE UNDERSTANDING A
NEW PRESIDENT DOESN'T MEAN THE
END OF THE KIND OF CARNAGE THAT
WE'VE SEEN GLAL WITHOUT TRYING
TO SOUND TOO CYNICAL WHAT CAN HE
DO TO FIGHT THIS KIND OF
UNORTHODOX WAR?
>> IT'S TRUE.
IT'S A HARD QUESTION.
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT DOING MORE
SOCIOLOGICAL RESEARCH TOND WHY
YOUNG PEOPLE FIND THEMSELVES
WILLING TO FIGHT FOR BOKO HARAM,
A GROUP THAT HAS LOST ALMOST ALL
OF ITS POPULAR SUPPORT AND YET
THROUGH A MIXTURE OF KIDNAPPING
AND RECRUITMENT AND A MIXTURE OF
THE TWO HAVE BEEN ABLE TO BRING
IN NEW PEOPLE.
THERE ARE A LARGE NUMBER OF BOKO
HARAM MEMBERS AND THE QUESTION
IS WHAT DO WE DO WITH THEM?
DO WE REREET REESE THEM OUT?
DO WE HAVE A REHABILITATION
PROGRAM FOR THEM AND THAT IS A
HARD ISSUE.
>> ONE OF THE OTHER SOOSHZ THE
DISPLACED PEOPLE.
WHAT EFFORTS ARE GOING TOWARDS
HELPING THOSE PEOPLE IN THAT
CRISIS.
>> AGAIN, IT'S A NEW
ADMINISTRATION SO I DON'T THINK
WE KNOW WHAT PRESIDENT BUHARI
WANTS TO DO WITH THAT LARGE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE.
THE ECONOMIC REALITY IS I
IMAGINE MANY OF THEM WILL MOVE
SOUTH TO LAGOS, AND CALAYBAR,
AND HARCOURT, WHERE EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES ARE SLIGHTLY
BETTER.
NIGERIA HAS SEVERAL BILLIONAIRES
BUT THE PART WHERE BOKO HARAM IS
OPERATING IS UP NEAR LAKE CHAD,
ONE OF THE POOREST PARTS ON
EARTH.
I IMAGINE PEOPLE BEING UPBRIGHT
WAR AND THE ECONOMIC REALITY OF
THAT PART OF NIGERIA ARE GOING
TO MOVE SOUTH GLAL LET'S TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT AWKWARD I THINK
IS A FAIR DESCRIPTION OF THE
POSITION THE UNITED STATES IS
IN, GIVEN THAT NIGERIA'S
MILITARY HAS THE OWN CASES OF
HUMAN RIGHT ABUSES BHAP CAN THE
UNITED STATES DO, GIVEN THIS
TENSION?
>> LATELY, U.S. OFFICIALS THAT
WE'VE SPOKEN TO SEEM TO BE A
LITTLE BIT MORE OPTIMISTIC THAN
BEFORE.
THEY FEEL THE ARMY IS OPENING UP
TO THE IDEA THAT THEY NEED TO BE
A LITTLE MORE CAREFUL ABOUT NOT
KILLING AND ALIENATING THE VERY
CIVILIANS THEY NEED TO WIN OVER.
IN THE LONG RUN, HAVING A NEW
PRESIDENT IS-- OFFERS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE U.S.
MILITARY TO TRY NEW PARTNERSHIPS
BUT IN THE LONG RUN, THIS IS A
REALLY TOUGH SITUATION THAT THE
NIGERIANS THEMSELVES ARE ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO FIGURE OUT GLAL
DREW HINSHAW OF THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL," THANKS FOR SHARING
YOUR REPORTING.
>> THANK YOU, TOO
>> Stewart: IN TONIGHT'S
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, A LOOK AT THE
HIGH COST OF PRESCRIPTION
MEDICATION.
CRITICS SAY THAT SOME
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES ARE
USING A LITTLE-KNOWN PRACTICE
TO DELAY SOME GENERIC, LESS
EXPENSIVE VERSIONS OF DRUGS FROM
HITTING THE MARKET.
AND THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
SAYS THESE DELAYS ARE COSTING
CONSUMERS BILLIONS OF DOLLARS A
YEAR.
THIS UPDATED STORY ORIGINALLY
AIRED LAST YEAR.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT MEGAN
THOMPSON REPORTS.
>> Reporter: IN 2004, KAREN
WINKLER WAS DIAGNOSED WITH
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS, A
DEBILITATING DISEASE AFFECTING
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
THE 47-YEAR-OLD MOTHER OF THREE,
WHO LIVES IN CLARKSTON,
MICHIGAN, STRUGGLES EVERY DAY
WITH NUMBNESS, PAIN AND EXTREME
FATIGUE.
>> IT'S SO OVERWHELMING.
YOU WAKE UP TIRED.
AND AS THE DAY PROGRESSES, IT
JUST GETS WORSE AND WORSE.
>> Reporter: IN 2005, WINKLER'S
DOCTOR PRESCRIBED A BRAND-NAME
MEDICATION CALLED PROVIGIL.
IT WAS ONE OF THE ONLY DRUGS FOR
FATIGUE ON THE MARKET THAT HAD
MINIMAL SIDE EFFECTS.
IT WAS MADE BY A COMPANY CALLED
CEPHALON, WHICH EARNED
$475 MILLION ON PROVIGIL THAT
YEAR.
WINKLER'S DOCTOR PUT HER ON A
HALF PILL, EVERY DAY.
>> IT WAS PERFECT, YOU KNOW.
I HAD THREE YOUNG KIDS AND I
COULD STILL DO- PRETTY MUCH DO
EVERYTHING THAT I DID.
AND, YOU KNOW, IF I HAD 10
THINGS ON THE TO-DO LIST, YOU
KNOW, I COULD EITHER GET THE 10
THINGS DONE OR AT LEAST EIGHT OR
NINE OF THEM.
>> Reporter: BETTER YET, WINKLER
SAYS HER DOCTOR TOLD HER
PROVIGIL WAS EXPECTED TO GO
GENERIC SOON, POSSIBLY WITHIN A
YEAR, WHICH COULD HAVE SAVED HER
MORE THAN $1,000 A YEAR.
>> THEN IT DIDN'T GO GENERIC.
AND IT WAS A WHOLE DIFFERENT
STORY.
>> Reporter: NOT ONLY DID IT NOT
GO GENERIC, THE PRICE
INEXPLICABLY STARTED TO RISE.
>> IT WAS SIX-SOMETHING A PILL.
AND THEN IT WAS SEVEN-SOMETHING
A PILL.
IN 2010, IT HAD GONE UP TO,
LIKE, 16-SOMETHING A PILL.
>> Reporter: WINKLER'S INSURANCE
ONLY COVERED HALF THE PRICE, AND
HER OUT-OF-POCKET COST FOR A
SIX-MONTH SUPPLY WENT FROM
AROUND $300 IN 2008 TO MORE THAN
$700 IN 2010.
SO, COULD YOU AFFORD THAT?
>> NO.
THAT WAS A CAR PAYMENT AND PLUS.
AND WITH THREE YOUNG KIDS AND,
YOU KNOW, FEEDING THEM, AND I
FELT GUILTY THAT I WAS TAKING
AWAY FROM THE FAMILY BUDGET.
>> Reporter: SO SHE DECIDED TO
GO OFF PROVIGIL, AND TRY A LESS
EXPENSIVE GENERIC VERSION OF A
DIFFERENT DRUG.
IT TURNED OUT NOT TO BE AS
EFFECTIVE, AND MADE HER SHAKY
AND JITTERY.
HER REACTION TO NOT GETTING THE
DRUGS SHE SAID SHE NEEDED?
>> I THOUGHT, HOW CAN THIS BE
LEGAL, HOW CAN THIS BE-- IT'S
DEFINITELY NOT MORAL.
IT'S NOT HUMANE.
>> Reporter: WHY HADN'T PROVIGIL
GONE GENERIC?
AND WHY WAS THE PRICE OF IT
RISING SO SHARPLY?
AS WINKLER DISCOVERED THROUGH
ONLINE RESEARCH, THE COMPANY
MANUFACTURING THE DRUG,
CEPHALON, WAS USING TWO COMMON
BUT LITTLE KNOWN BUSINESS
STRATEGIES THAT CRITICS SAY END
UP COSTING CONSUMERS.
FIRST, THERE'S SOMETHING THAT
OPPONENTS CALL, "PAY FOR DELAY."
HERE'S HOW "PAY FOR DELAY"
WORKS.
ACCORDING TO THE FEDERAL TRADE
COMMISSION, WHEN GENERIC
MANUFACTURERS CHALLENGE A DRUG'S
PATENT, THE BRAND-NAME
MANUFACTURER SOMETIMES OFFERS
THEM COMPENSATION TO DROP THE
CHALLENGE.
IN THE CASE OF KAREN'S DRUG,
CEPHALON OFFERED PAYMENTS AND
BUSINESS DEALS WORTH AROUND $300
MILLION TO FOUR GENERIC
COMPANIES, IN EXCHANGE FOR A
GUARANTEE THAT NO GENERIC WOULD
COME TO MARKET FOR ANOTHER SIX
YEARS.
>> AT ITS SIMPLEST LEVEL, WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT AN AGREEMENT
BETWEEN A BRAND COMPANY AND A
GENERIC COMPANY, IN WHICH THE
BRAND COMPANY PAYS THE GENERIC
COMPANY NOT TO LAUNCH A GENERIC
IN COMPETITION WITH THE BRAND.
>> Reporter: MARKUS MEIER IS AN
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN THE
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION'S
BUREAU OF COMPETITION.
HE SAYS FIGHTING THESE SO-CALLED
"PAY FOR DELAY" DEALS IS ONE OF
THE F.T.C.'S TOP PRIORITIES.
IN 2008, THE F.T.C. SUED
CEPHALON, ALLEGING"
ANTICOMPETITIVE CONDUCT BY
CEPHALON TO PREVENT LOWER-COST
GENERIC COMPETITION."
A SEPARATE CLASS-ACTION LAWSUIT
WAS ALSO FILED BY DRUG
WHOLESALERS AND RETAILERS
AGAINST CEPHALON, AND THE FOUR
GENERIC MANUFACTURERS, ALLEGING"
UNLAWFUL EXCLUSION OF GENERIC
COMPETITION FROM THE MARKET."
AND IN 2013, THE SUPREME COURT
ISSUED A MAJOR RULING IN ANOTHER
F.T.C. CASE THAT COULD OPEN THE
DOOR FOR MORE LAWSUITS AGAINST
DRUG MANUFACTURERS INVOLVED IN
SIMILAR PRACTICES.
>> IF YOU CAN KEEP THE GENERIC
OUT, THE BRAND CAN CONTINUE TO
MAKE ALL THE SALES AT THE
MONOPOLY PRICE AND STILL PAY THE
GENERIC TO MAKE IT WORTHWHILE
FOR THEM TO STAY OUT OF THE
MARKET.
WE'VE DONE A STUDY OF THIS BACK
IN 2010 WHERE WE REALLY STUDIED
THIS VERY CAREFULLY AND WE
ESTIMATED THAT IT COST AMERICAN
CONSUMERS ABOUT $3.5 BILLION A
YEAR.
>> Reporter: DEALS LIKE THIS
HAVE AFFECTED THE ROLLOUT OF
GENERIC VERSIONS OF POPULAR
DRUGS SUCH AS TAMOXIFEN FOR
CANCER, LIPITOR FOR HIGH
CHOLESTEROL, AND NEXIUM FOR
HEARTBURN.
IT MIGHT NOT SURPRISE YOU THAT
WHAT OPPONENTS CALL "PAY FOR
DELAY" DEALS, THE DRUG COMPANIES
DESCRIBE COMPLETELY DIFFERENTLY.
THE GENERIC MANUFACTURERS SAY
THE NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENTS THEY
REACH WITH BRAND-NAME DRUG
MANUFACTURERS ACTUALLY SERVE
CONSUMERS WELL.
HOW?
BECAUSE, THEY SAY, UNDER THOSE
DEALS, GENERIC DRUGS HIT THE
MARKET BEFORE THE BRAND DRUG'S
PATENT EXPIRES, AND ONLY BECAUSE
THEY CHALLENGED THOSE PATENTS IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
>> DO WE WORK OUT COMPROMISE?
PROUDLY, I SAY YES.
>> Reporter: RALPH NEAS IS
PRESIDENT AND C.E.O. OF THE
GENERIC PHARMACEUTICAL
ASSOCIATION.
NEAS SAYS THE SETTLEMENTS HELP
AVOID COSTLY AND TIME-CONSUMING
COURT TRIALS OVER THE DRUG
PATENT CHALLENGES.
AND, HE POINTS TO ONE STUDY
SHOWING GENERIC MANUFACTURERS
SUCCEED LESS THAN HALF THE TIME
WHEN THEY DO END UP IN COURT.
>> WE MAY HAVE NO BETTER THAN A
50/50 CHANCE OF WINNING, MAYBE
LESS.
MAYBE WE CAN PUT SOMETHING ON
THE TABLE THAT WOULD BE A BRIDGE
TO A COMPROMISE.
THIS HAS BEEN PART OF THE
SUCCESSFUL EQUATION THAT HAVE
GOTTEN AFFORDABLE MEDICINES TO
CONSUMERS SOONER.
>> Reporter: YOUR OPPONENTS
WOULD SAY THAT IF IT WEREN'T FOR
THESE PAYMENTS THAT WERE BEING
MADE, THESE DRUGS MAY HAVE COME
TO MARKET EVEN SOONER.
>> SOMETIMES YOU GO ALL THE WAY
AND YOU MIGHT GET TEN YEARS OR
EIGHT YEARS SOONER.
BUT IF YOU ARE PRETTY SURE YOU
CAN GET FIVE OR SIX OR SEVEN
YEARS, IT'S BETTER TAKING THAT
FIVE OR SIX OR SEVEN YEARS
RATHER THAN ROLLING THE DICE AND
GETTING NOTHING FOR THE
CONSUMERS YOU'RE TRYING TO
SERVE.
>> Reporter: IN EACH OF THESE
CASES, THE GENERIC DOES END UP
COMING TO MARKET MONTHS,
SOMETIMES EVEN YEARS BEFORE THAT
PATENT IN QUESTION EXPIRES.
SO, ISN'T THAT GOOD FOR
CONSUMERS?
>> WELL, THE FACT THAT THE
GENERIC COMES IN EARLIER COULD,
IN THEORY, BE BETTER, BUT YOU
HAVE TO COMPARE IT TO THE
LIKELIHOOD THAT THE GENERIC
WOULD HAVE COME EVEN EARLIER.
SO, TAKE, FOR EXAMPLE, PROVIGIL.
IT'S TRUE THAT THERE IS A
GENERIC IN THE MARKET TODAY.
BUT WE CONTEND THAT BUT FOR THIS
AGREEMENT, CONSUMERS WOULD HAVE
HAD ACCESS TO A GENERIC ALL THE
WAY BACK IN 2006.
>> Reporter: BUT BECAUSE OF WHAT
CRITICS DESCRIBE AS THOSE "PAY
FOR DELAY" DEALS, PROVIGIL
DIDN'T GO GENERIC.
SO KAREN WINKLER AND OTHER
CONSUMERS PAID THE PRICE.
AND IT TURNS OUT SHE PAID EVEN
MORE BECAUSE OF THAT SECOND
CONTROVERSIAL BUSINESS STRATEGY
THAT CEPHALON USED THEN AND
OTHER DRUG MANUFACTURERS
CONTINUE TO USE TODAY--
SOMETHING OPPONENTS CALL"
EVERGREENING."
THE IDEA IS TO GET CONSUMERS OFF
THE DRUG THEY'RE TAKING AND ON
TO ANOTHER BRAND DRUG THE SAME
COMPANY IS MAKING.
IN WINKLER'S CASE, OFF PROVIGIL
WHOSE PATENT WAS GOING TO
EXPIRE, AND ONTO A NEW DRUG,
NUVIGIL, WHOSE PATENT HAD
SEVERAL MORE YEARS TO RUN.
COMPANIES SOMETIMES DO THIS BY
RAISING PRICES ON THE FIRST
DRUG.
SURE ENOUGH, WHEN WINKLER
COMPLAINED ABOUT THE RISING
PRICE OF PROVIGIL, HER DOCTOR
SUGGESTED NUVIGIL, WHICH WAS
CHEAPER.
BUT WINKLER SAYS IT GAVE HER
POUNDING HEADACHES.
SO SHE WENT ONLINE TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT WAS GOING ON.
>> AND WHAT THEY WERE TRYING TO
DO WAS TO GET PATIENTS OFF OF
PROVIGIL, BECAUSE THEY KNEW IT
WAS GOING TO BE GOING GENERIC
SHORTLY, TO START TAKING THIS
NUVIGIL THAT HAD THIS NEW,
EXTENDED PATENT PERIOD.
>> IT'S VERY RARE FOR PATIENTS
TO SWITCH BACK ONCE THE GENERIC
COMES INTO THE MARKETPLACE.
SO, IT'S A STRATEGY FOR THE
BRAND TO BE ABLE TO HOLD ON TO
THE MARKET LONGER, EVEN AFTER
THERE'S A GENERIC IN THE
MARKETPLACE.
>> Reporter: THIS IS ONE AREA
WHERE THE GENERIC PHARMACEUTICAL
ASSOCIATION AND THE F.T.C.
AGREE.
>> THAT'S KEEPING AFFORDABLE
MEDICINE FROM PEOPLE WHO
DESPERATELY NEED IT.
AND WE'RE VERY MUCH AGAINST IT
AND IT'S A BIG ISSUE.
>> Reporter: WHAT DOES
PROVIGIL'S MANUFACTURER,
CEPHALON, HAVE TO SAY ABOUT THE
TWO STRATEGIES?
IN 2011, THE COMPANY WAS
ACQUIRED BY TEVA, THE WORLD'S
LARGEST GENERIC DRUG COMPANY.
IN A STATEMENT LAST YEAR TO
NEWSHOUR, TEVA DECLINED TO
COMMENT ON EVERGREENING.
AS FOR THE SO-CALLED "PAY FOR
DELAY" STRATEGY, THE COMPANY
SAID IT BELIEVED THE AGREEMENTS
WERE "LAWFUL AND SERVED TO
INCREASE COMPETITION" AND THAT
IT WOULD "DEFEND THEM
VIGOROUSLY."
BUT JUST LAST WEEK, A MAJOR
DEVELOPMENT IN THE F.T.C.'S
CASE.
>> I WANT TO ANNOUNCE THAT THE
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION HAS
REACHED A LANDMARK SETTLEMENT
RESOLVING OUR ANTITRUST SUIT
AGAINST CEPHALON INCORPORATED.
>> Reporter: TEVA AGREED TO
SETTLE FOR $1.2 BILLION, THE
LARGEST SETTLEMENT EVER IN
F.T.C. HISTORY.
THE MONEY WILL REFUND
WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES AND
INSURERS THE F.T.C. SAYS
OVERPAID FOR PROVIGIL.
TEVA ALSO AGREED NOT TO ENTER
SIMILAR DEALS IN THE FUTURE.
A SPOKESPERSON SAID, "WE ARE
PLEASED TO HAVE REACHED AN
AGREEMENT WITH THE GOVERNMENT.
TEVA BELIEVES IT IS THE RIGHT
PATH FOR OUR COMPANY, FOR THE
INDUSTRY AND FOR THE PATIENTS WE
SERVE."
TEVA ALSO SETTLED THE OTHER,
CLASS-ACTION SUIT EARLIER THIS
YEAR FOR HALF A BILLION DOLLARS,
AN AMOUNT THE F.T.C. WILL FOLD
INTO ITS SETTLEMENT.
>> I BELIEVE THIS SETTLEMENT
BRINGS US ONE STEP CLOSER TO
STOPPING THESE ILLEGAL
ARRANGEMENTS.
>> Reporter: INDIVIDUALS LIKE
KAREN WINKLER LIKELY WON'T SEE
MONEY FROM THE SETTLEMENT
ANYTIME SOON.
BUT, SHE SAYS, SHE HOPES IT WILL
MAKE OTHER COMPANIES THINK TWICE
ABOUT MAKING SIMILAR DEALS.
PROVIGIL DID GO GENERIC IN 2012,
AND THE PRICE FOR WINKLER FELL
FROM MORE THAN $700 TO $16 FOR A
THREE-MONTH SUPPLY.
SHE WENT BACK ON THE DRUG, AND
SAYS IT'S MADE ALL THE
DIFFERENCE.
>> Stewart: AHEAD OF WORLD
OCEANS DAY, CODERS IN TWELVE
CITIES AROUND THE WORLD RACE TO
DEVELOP THE BEST MOBILE APP TO
HELP STOP ILLEGAL FISHING.
TO EXPLORE THE "FISH HACKATHON,"
VISIT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Stewart: FOR THE FIRST TIME
EVER, WORKERS AT A MAJOR ONLINE
MEDIA OUTLET, GAWKER MEDIA, HAVE
VOTED TO UNIONIZE.
IN FACT, THE VOTE WAS A
LANDSLIDE AMONG THE 100-PLUS
EMPLOYEES WHO CONTRIBUTE TO THE
POPULAR WEBSITES GAWKER,
DEADSPIN and JEZEBEL.
JOINING ME NOW WITH SOME INSIGHT
IS THE HUFFINGTON POST'S SENIOR
MEDIA EDITOR GABRIEL ARANA.
GABRIEL, BY ALL ACCOUNTS,
WORKERS WERE REALLY HAPPY AT
GAWKER MEDIA GENERALLY, SO WHY
GAWKER?
WHY NOW?
>> SO WHEN YOU TALK TO WORKERS,
THE PURPORTED REASON FOR
ORGANIZING BUNDT BECAUSE THEY
WERE UPSET WITH MANAGEMENT.
THEY WEREN'T UNHAPPY.
IT'S BECAUSE THEY WANTED MORE
TRANSPARENCY IN THE WAY THINGS
LIKE SALARIES ARE DECIDED,
THINGS LIKE BONUSES ARE DECIDED.
RIGHT NOW THOSE THINGS ARE
SUBJECT TO INDIVIDUAL
NEGOTIATIONS, AND NOBODY SORT OF
KNOWS WHAT THE RULES ARE FOR
EVERYBODY.
AND SO, THE GOAL WAS TO BRING
MORE TRANSPARENCY TO THAT
PROCESS.
AND THEN, ALSO, AS THE INDUSTRY
IS MATURING, PEOPLE WANT
SECURITY.
PEOPLE WANT PROTECTION INTO THE
FUTURE.
AND GAWKER MIGHT BE A GREAT
PLACE TO WORK NOW, BUT NOBODY
KNOWS WHAT FUTURE HOLDS, WHAT
SORT OF ECONOMIC CHALLENGES,
STRUCTURAL CHANGES THE COMPANY
GL THROUGH.
SO IT'S REALLY, FOR THE FUTURE,
FOR TRANSPARENCY, AND THEN FOR
STABILITY.
GLAL I'M WONDERING HOW THE IDEA
OF UNIONS WILL MESH WITH THE
FREE-WHEELING SPIRIT OF THE
INTERNET.
>> I THINK THE UNIONS ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO DO MORE OF THE
LEARNING.
TECH WORKERS, HIGH-SKILL
WORKERS, MILLENNIALS -- OF WHICH
I AM ONE-- WE DEPARTMENT GROW UP
IN A UNION ENVIRONMENT WHICH IS
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT MAKES THE
EFFORT REALLY EXCITING FOR THE
LABOR MOVEMENT.
THERE HAVE BEEN MANY EFFORTS TO
ORGANIZE THE TECH SECTOR, TO
ORGANIZE SOFTWARE ENGINEERS THAT
HAVE BEEN LARGELY UNSUCCESSFUL,
BUT HERE YOU HAVE A REALLY YOUNG
WORKFORCE VOTING TO UNIONIZE.
AND IN A NASIENT AND THRIVING
INDUSTRY AND THE AS THE UNION
RATE HAVE DECLINED, THIS WILL BE
A SIGN OF LIFE.
>> WILL THIS BE ONE OF THE
MOMENTS WHEN THEY LOOK BACK AND
SAY THAT WAS A TURNING POINT IN
THE INTERNET CULTURE?
>> I THINK SO.
I THINK THIS IS THE BEGINNING OF
A TREND, AND AS THE INDUSTRY
MATURES, AS IT GROWS, YOU'RE
GOING TO SEE MANY MORE
ORGANIZING EFFORTS AT SIMILAR
DIGITAL MEDIA COMPANIES.
>> PLACING LIKE HUFFINGTON POST
OR VOX MEDIA.
THIS IS GOING TO BECOME THE NEW
NORMAL, PERHAPS?
>> I WOULD SAY THERE ARE A FEW
THINGS THAT WERE UNUSUAL ABOUT
THE GAWKER UNION VOTE THAT YOU
MIGHT NOT-- THAT MIGHT NOT BE
THE CASE FOR OTHER COMPANIES.
>> WHAT WERE THEY?
>> SO, THE ENTIRE VOTE AT GAWKER
ACTUALLY WAS REALLY AS YOUY'S.
USUALLY WHEN WORKERS ANNOUNCE AN
AYERST TO ORGANIZE, THERE IS A
CONCERTED CAMPAIGN ON THE PART
OF MANAGEMENT TO CONVINCE
WORKERS NOT TO ORGANIZE.
BUT YOU REALLY SAW NONE OF THAT
IN THIS CASE.
MANAGEMENT TOOK A RELATIVELY
HANDS-OFF APPROACH, AND SORT OF
IN KEEPING WITH GAWKER'S
CULTURE, WITH THEIR COMMITMENT
TO RADICAL TRANSPARENCY,
EMPLOYEES DEBATED OPENLY ABOUT
THE BENEFITS AND DOWNSIDE OF
ORGANIZING ON GAWKER'S OWN SITE
IN PUBLIC VIEW UPON NOT TO SAY
THERE HAVEN'T BEEN ANY PROBLEMS.
THERE ARE SOME COMPLAINTS THAT
COMMUNICATION BETWEEN ORGANIZERS
AND THE STAFF COULD HAVE BEEN
BETTER.
SO IT WASN'T PERFECT, BUT IT'S
REALLY REMARKABLE FOR
MANAGEMENT'S RELATIVELY
HANDS-OFF APPROACH.
LABOR LEADERS MIGHT HOPE THAT
THAT WILL BE THE CASE
EVERYWHERE.
I THINK THE HISTORY OF AMERICAN
LABOR CAUTIONS YOU TO BE
CAREFUL.
>> GABRIEL ARANA FROM HUFFINGTON
POST, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> FINALLY, AMID ALL THE
CONTROVERSY SURROUNDING FEV ATHE
GOMPING BODY OF SOCCER, THE
WOAM'S WORLD CUP START TONIGHT
IN EDMONTON ALBERTA, CANADA.
THE WOMEN'S TEAM IS A TWO-TIME
CHAMP AND FAVORITE THIS YEAR.
TEAM U.S.A. PLAYS ITS FIRST
GAME AGAINST AUSTRALIA JUNE 8.
SERENA WILLIAMS CAME FROM BEHIND
TO WIN HER THIRD FRENCH OPEN AND
20th MAJOR SINGLES.
I'M ALISON STEWART.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
GOOD NIGHT.